[Doc] Real-time inference documentation (#1312)
awslabs/graphstorm: docs/source/cli/model-training-inference/real-time-inference-spec.rst

.. _real-time-inference-spec:

==========================================================
Specification of Real-time Inference Request and Response
==========================================================

.. _rt-request_payload-spec:

Specification of Request Payload Contents 
------------------------------------------

A payload should be a JSON object. In the highest level, the JSON object contains three fields:
``version``, ``gml_task``, and ``graph``.

.. code:: json

    {
        "version"   : string,
        "gml_task"  : string,
        "graph"     : [ ... ]
    }

- ``version`` -- (String, required) The version of payload to be used. The current version is ``gs-realtime-v0.1``.

> - ``gml_task`` -- (String, required) The graph machine learning task this payload is for. Current specification

Author: It should be current ``version``.

  supports two options: 
    * ``node_classification``
    * ``node_regression``
- ``graph`` -- (JSON objects) The contents of a payload.

Contents of objects in the ``graph`` field
........................................... 

> A ``graph`` object contains three objects, i.e., ``nodes``, ``edges``, and ``targets``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ``graph`` object contains three objects:``nodes``, ``edges``, and ``targets``.
```

> A ``graph`` object contains three objects:``nodes``, ``edges``, and ``targets``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ``graph`` object contains three objects: ``nodes``, ``edges``, and ``targets``.
```

    {
        "nodes"     : [ ... ],
        "edges"     : [ ... ],
        "targets"   : [ ... ]
    }

- ``nodes`` -- (array of JSON objects) Each object specifies a ``node`` object. 
- ``edges`` -- (array of JSON objects) Each object specifies an ``edge`` object.
- ``targets``  -- (array of JSON objects) Each object specifies a ``node`` object or an ``edge`` object,
  depending on the value of ``gml_task``.

Contents of a ``node`` object listed in a ``nodes`` array
..........................................................

A ``node`` object listed in a ``nodes`` array can contain the following required fields.

.. code:: json

    {
        "node_type" : string,
        "node_id"   : string,
        "features"  : {
                        feature name: feature value,
                        feature name: feature value,
                        ...
                      }
    }

* ``node_type`` -- A string specifying the node type name in a graph. It should be same as these
  ``node_type`` defined in :ref:`gconstruct JSON specification <gconstruction-json>` or the ``type``
  values of ``nodes`` defined in :ref:`gsprocessing JSON specification <gsprocessing_input_configuration>`.

> * ``node_id`` -- A string specifying the node identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``node_id`` -- A string specifying a unique node identifier. The identifiers are used to build a sub-graph according to the contents of the `edges` object.
```

> * ``features`` -- A dictionary, whose key is a feature name, and its value is the value of features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``features`` -- A dictionary, with feature names as keys, and feature values as values.
```

  feaure names should be same as the ``feature_name`` defined in :ref:`gconstruct JSON specification

>   <gconstruction-json>`, or these ``name`` values of ``features`` fields defined in
>   :ref:`gsprocessing JSON specification <gsprocessing_input_configuration>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <gconstruction-json>`, or the ``name`` values of ``features`` fields defined in
  :ref:`GSProcessing JSON specification <gsprocessing_input_configuration>`.
```

Contents of an ``edge`` object listed in an ``edges`` array
............................................................

> An ``edge`` object listed in an ``edges`` array can contain the following required fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ``edge`` object listed in an ``edges`` array must contain the following required fields.
```

.. code:: json

    {
        "edge_type"     : [(source node type), (edge type), (destination node type)],
        "src_node_id"   : string,
        "dest_node_id"  : string,
            "features"  : {
                            feature name: feature value,
                            feature name: feature value,
                            ...
                        }
    }

* ``edge_type`` -- An array specifying the edge type name in the format of three strings, which indicate the

>   source node type, the edge type, and the destination edge type. It should be same as the ``relation`` fileds

Reviewer: The word `fileds` (correct: `fields`) appears misspelled multiple times , can we do a search and replace?

```suggestion
  source node type, the edge type, and the destination edge type. It should be same as the ``relation`` fields
```

  defined in :ref:`gconstruct JSON specification <gconstruction-json>` or the ``type`` values of ``source``
  ``relation``, and ``dest`` fileds defined in
  :ref:`gsprocessing JSON specification <gsprocessing_input_configuration>`.
* ``src_node_id`` -- A string specifying the source node identifier.
* ``dest_node_id`` -- A string specifying the destination node identifier.

> * ``features`` -- A dictionary, whose key is a feature name, and its key is value of the feature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``features`` -- A dictionary, with feature names as keys, and feature values as its values.
```

  feaure names should be same as these ``feature_name`` defined in :ref:`gconstruct JSON specification
  <gconstruction-json>`, or these ``name`` values of ``features`` fields defined in
  :ref:`gsprocessing JSON specification <gsprocessing_input_configuration>`.

> Contents of a target object listed in a ``targets`` array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contents of a `target` object listed in a ``targets`` array
```

Author: There is no `target` object. It is either a ``node`` or ``edge``. So here use target purposely.

..........................................................

Depending on the value of ``gml_task``, a target object in a ``targets`` array could be a ``node`` object
or an ``edge`` object as defined above. As a target object, the ``features`` field is not required. 

    .. note::

>         A target objects, a ``node`` or an ``edge``, should have the same ``node`` or ``edge`` object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        A target object, a ``node`` or an ``edge``, should have the same ``node`` or ``edge`` object
```

        in the ``nodes`` or ``edges`` array. For example, in the below payload example, the ``author``
        node ``a39`` is a target node, and it also is one of the nodes in the ``nodes`` list.

>         .. code:: yaml

Reviewer: Should be JSON? If we want to avoid syntax errors can use `python` and write as a python dict

**Response Body Syntax**:
.........................

.. code:: json

    {
        'status_code'   : 'int',
        'request_uid'   : 'string',
        'message'       : 'string',
        'error'         : 'string',
        'data'          : {
            results: [
                {
                    'node_type'     : 'string',
                    'node_id'       : 'string',
                    'predictions'   : [ ...... ]
                },
                or
                {
                    'edge_type'     : ['string', 'string', 'string'],
                    'src_node_id'   : 'string',
                    'dest_node_id'  : 'string',
                    'predictions'   : [ ...... ]
                }
            ]
        }
    }

**Response Body Structure**:
............................

- (dict) --
    - ``status_code`` (int) --
        An integer indicates the outcome status, including:
            - ``200``: request processed successfully.
            - ``400``: the request payload has JSON format errors.
            - ``401``: the request payload missed certain fileds, required by :ref:`Payload specification <reat-time-payload-spec>`.

>             - ``402``: the request payload missed values on certain fileds.

Reviewer: Can we be more specific about the difference between these two, e.g. with examples?

>             - ``401``: the request payload missed certain fileds, required by :ref:`Payload specification <reat-time-payload-spec>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - ``401``: the request payload missed certain fileds, required by :ref:`Payload specification <real-time-payload-spec>`.
```

            - ``403``: ``node_type`` of nodes in the ``target`` field does not exist in the ``graph`` field.
            - ``404``: values of the ``node_id`` fileds of nodes in the ``target`` field do not exist in the ``graph`` field.
            - ``411``: errors occurred when converting the request payload into DGL graph format for inference.
            - ``421``: the task in ``gml_task`` does not match the task that the deployed model is for.
            - ``500``: internal server errors.
    - ``request_uid`` (string) --
        A string serves as a unique identifier for the request payload. This identifier is logged on the
        endpoint side and returned to invokers, facilitating error debugging.
    -  ``message`` (string) --
        A string provides additional information when the ``status_code`` is 200.
    - ``error`` (string) --
        A string provides detailed explanations when the ``status_code`` is **NOT** 200.

>     - ``data`` (JSON object) --

Author: dict is better. updated.

                A list that includes the inference values for all nodes or edges specified in the payload's
                ``target`` field.
                    - (dict) --
                        For node prediction tasks (node classification and node regression):
                            - ``node_type`` (string) --
                                Specifies a node type name in a graph.
                            - ``node_id`` (string) -- 
                                Specifies a node identifier.
                        For edge prediciton tasks (edge classification and edge regression):
                            - ``edge_type`` (list )-- 
                                An array specifying the edge type name in the format of three strings, which
                                indicate the source node type, the edge type, and the destination edge type.
                            - ``src_node_id`` (string) --
                                Specifies the source node identifier.
                            - ``dest_node_id`` (string) --
                                Specifies the destination node identifier.

                        - ``prediction`` (list) --

>                             A list contains the inference results of target nodes or edges. For classification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                            A list containing the inference results for all target nodes or edges. For classification
```
